.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 ... 2016 2017 2018 
.\"     John McCue <jmccue@jmcunx.com>
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.TH jtail 1 "$Date: 2018/07/05 22:48:29 $" "JMC" "Local Command"
.SH NAME
jtail - output the last part of 1 or more files to stdout
.SH SYNOPSIS
jtail [OPTIONS] [FILE...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Print last 10 lines of each FILE to standard output 
of file name(s) supplied.
If processing more than one FILE, precede each with a header
showing the file name.
When no FILE specified, read standard input.
.TP
-c
Prefix output with line number.
.TP
-e file
Write errors/stats to file 'file'.
Default is to to use stderr.
.TP
-f
If creating an Output File (see -o below), overwrite
file if it exists, default is to abort if output exists
.TP
-h
Show brief help and exit.
.TP
-n NUMBER
Print last 'NUMBER' lines instead of last 10.
.TP
-o file
Write Output to file 'file' instead of stdout.
If file exists abort unless '-f' supplied (see above).
.TP
-q
Quiet, never print headers (names of files processed),
will only attempt to print headers when processing more than 1 file.
.TP
-r
Reverse, show lines in reverse order.
Last line first.
.TP
-V
output version information and exit
.TP
-v
Verbose, always print file headers even when
processing one file.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
Environment variable 'ARG_JTAIL_N' can be set to set
the default number of lines printed (-n).
Command line will override this variable.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Processes one line at a time, assumes the file is a text file.
.PP
If available, tail(1) may have more options.
.SH SEE-ALSO
dd(1),
head(1),
jhead(1),
jascii(1),
tail(1)
.SH ERROR-CODES
.nf
0 success
1 processing error
.fi
